Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we're going to set up the correct answer feature for our block type.
Let me explain.
So right now, there's a star next to each answer.
And the whole point of this is you click on one to mark or designated as the correct answer.
I think the correct answer should have its star filled in with a solid color.
And then also, we obviously need to keep track of the correct answer for when we build out the front
end version of this block, right where the user can see a sorry, that's the wrong answer message or
congrats.
That's the correct answer.
So how do we start building this feature?
Well, let's just give ourselves a new attribute that points towards the correct index or item in our
array.
So back in our text editor, up towards the top of our index, not just file within our attributes object.
Let's just add a comma here.
Make up a new property or attribute name.
I'll call it correct answer, call and give it an object.
Let's say that it should be a type of number.
Right.
It's just going to be the index of the correct answer in the array.
So if Red was the correct answer, this would have a value of zero.
If it was blue, it would have a value of one.
While we're up here, let's give this another property of default and set it to undefined.
A bit later in the lesson, we'll discuss why I'm setting this to undefined.
But for now, I'll just say that if the correct answer was the first item, then this would have a value
of zero.
And as you can imagine, the true or false nature of zero, it gets interpreted as false.
So when I'm trying to check to see if the user has set an answer or not, you can see how there would
be room for confusion.
So by being able to check against the value of undefined, it's just going to make our code a bit easier
to work with, in my opinion.
Anyways, let's go down into our JSM and use this attribute.
So let's find the map code that's looping through all of our answers.
And we're looking for the button with the star icon.
Here it is on the opening button tag.
Let's give it an on click prop equals curly brackets.
And now, just like we did with the delete button, we gave it an Essex arrow function.
And then that just calls a function.
And most importantly, we can pass an argument into it.
So index points towards the correct item in the array and we're just handing that off to delete answer.
Let's do the same thing here.
Only will create a function maybe called Mark as correct instead of delete answer.
So in these curly brackets we'll just have parentheses, arrow symbol, let's say Mark as correct parentheses
to call it, and we'll just pass into it index.
OK, then let's just go create a function with this name Mark as correct.
So if we scroll up maybe right below our delete answer function, we can have function mark as correct
parentheses, curly brackets.
I spelled that wrong.
There we go.
Let's have a parameter to receive that incoming index.
We can just call it index or whatever name you want to use inside the body.
We would just say props, dot set attributes, give it an object and we would just set correct answer
to be whatever was passed into the function.
Before we save this and test it out, let's add one more detail that will make it obvious if things
are working correctly or not.
So what I want to do is make the class for the star icon dynamic, meaning if the current item is the
correct answer, the star should be filled in.
If it's not, it can remain empty.
So here's how we can do that.
Let's find that star icon again.
And right now it has an icon value of star empty.
So this is a WordPress icon value.
If you changed this to star dash filled, well, it would have a solid color.
So let's just make this dynamic depending on the value of the correct answer.
So let's change this icon equals curly brackets to do something dynamic.
And now in JSM right here, we can't have an if statement.
So statements are not allowed, only expressions or another way of phrasing.
That is, it needs to be something that boils down to a value.
Right.
And an if statement or an else statement doesn't boil down to a value.
It just controls the flow of code.
So what we can do instead is use a ternary operator, which is very similar to an if else statement,
but it boils down to a value.
So to write a ternary operator, you just start with a condition that you're checking.
So let's compare the correct answer to the index of the current item.
So we'll say props dot attributes dot correct answer double equals sign to check.
For equality or comparing that against index.
Now, if that's a match, that means the current item is the correct item.
So in a ternary operator, you then say questionmark and you include what you want to happen, if that's
true.
So we would say quotes star Dasch filled after that.
You say colon and then what you want to output if your condition was not true.
So that would be quotes star Dasch empty.
Let's give this a save and go test it out.
So if we refresh and I set blue to be the correct answer, perfect.
You can see that icon stays lit up or it's a solid color if I change it to purple.
Perfect.
Let's go ahead and save this post and then perform a hard or full refresh.
Cool.
You can see that was successfully saved and stored.
Next, let's work on handling the situation where you delete the item that is currently marked as the
correct answer.
If that happens, we would want to change the correct answer, attribute value to just be undefined
once again.
So, for example, right now, correct answer has a value of zero because the first item in the array
is the correct answer.
If I deleted this first answer, we wouldn't want correct answer to be zero or one or two.
We would want it to be undefined once again.
So all we need to do to fix that is find our delete answer function.
Here it is.
And within the body of this function, let's just add a new line.
Let's have an if statement.
So if parentheses curly brackets, the condition will be if indexed to delete.
So if the one we're trying to delete or we just did delete, if that equals the one that is currently
marked as the correct answer.
So if that equals attributes dot correct answer.
If that's true, then let's just set it back to undefined.
So props dot set attributes, give it an object and just set correct answer back to undefined.
Let's save this and give it a test.
So if I reload, let me add a few extra answers just so we have additional rows to experiment with.
Green, yellow.
OK, so the first answer is marked as the correct one.
But if I delete that, notice that the correct answer is no longer just zero or the first item in the
array.
Instead, we've successfully set correct answer back to undefined.
Let's change gears and work on a different detail.
This is just my opinion, but I think that if you haven't marked any answer as the correct answer,
I think we should disable the WordPress save button.
WordPress has a function called lock post saving that makes that very easy to do.
So right now it would be disabled.
But then as soon as you marked one of these as the correct answer, the buttons should light up again
and be available to save or update.
However, before we immediately start writing the code to make that happen, we need to stop and think
about this for a moment because it's not as simple as just checking to see if correct answer is undefined
and then locking the save button.
And what I mean by this is we can have multiple instances of this quiz block.
So, for example, right below this, if I added another instance of are you paying attention and said,
what color is the sky?
Right.
And now I haven't marked any answers to the correct answer.
So it would make sense that the updater save button could be locked or disabled.
But then if I chose a correct answer on this instance of the block, we wouldn't just want to immediately
enable the save button, because what if another instance of the block on the page didn't have a correct
answer marked anyways?
What I'm getting at here is instead of solving this problem from an individual block perspective, we
should solve the problem from a WordPress block editor as a whole perspective.
Luckily for us, WordPress gives us all the tools we need to do this.
So right now, I want you to open up your dev tools just right.
Click anywhere, choose inspect element and then switch to the console tab before I even begin to explain
what we're going to type here, let's just type it out.
I think you'll see that the method names are fairly intuitively named and I think you'll be pleasantly
surprised when you see what it gives to us.
So type this in WP dot data, dot select and that's a method.
So parentheses to call it inside that.
Let's give it a string of text core slash block dash editor, close out that string of text after the
parentheses tack on dot get blocks and parentheses to call that when we push enter WordPress gives us
an array.
That's all of the blocks on the current page.
Right.
You can see the first one is.
Just a core standard paragraph, and then there's two instances of are you paying attention quiz block,
and then there's, in my case, four more standard default paragraphs.
So it gives us an array of objects and go ahead and expand one for you.
That is the are you paying attention type.
So if we expand it, you can see we have the attributes right here, the question, the array of answers,
the correct answer.
So what this means is that any time we want to access sort of the block ed as a whole, well, we can
access it right here and then we can dig into those and check their values.
So all we would need to do is set up code that any time a piece of data on the block, ed as a whole
changes, we would just check to make sure that none of the blocks that have a type of are you paying
attention that none of them have a correct answer of undefined.
If this isn't making perfect sense yet, that's OK.
I think the picture will come into focus when we actually start writing the code to make this happen.
So right now, let's jump back into our text editor and scroll up to the very top.
So because we're not going to approach things from an individual component or block level any longer,
we're not going to write the code within our edit component function.
Instead, we're approaching it from a sort of screen as a whole or block ed as a whole perspective.
So let's just write a function up towards the very top here.
So, for example, right above our register block type line, I'm just going to say function and name
it our start function.
Just give it a somewhat unique name that no other function and WordPress is using.
A bit later on the video.
We can circle back to this and I'll show you how to avoid the issue of having to choose a unique name
entirely.
But for now, let's just create a function.
And then right after the definition, just be sure to call that function.
So our start function, OK, really, we're just creating a function so that we can write code and have
our variables encapsulated so we're not polluting or accidentally changing any of the global scope variables
in WordPress, JavaScript.
Anyways, inside this function, we're going to use the following tool.
So WP dot data dot subscribe parentheses to call it in these parentheses we give it a function, so
function parentheses, curly brackets.
And now here's the cool part.
WordPress is going to call our function each and every time any of the data on the block Ed as a whole
changes.
Just for a quick example, it's console that log the word hello, give this a save and now watch this
back.
And WordPress, if you refresh and then check your console, you can already see that it's output.
HARLOW Many, many times.
But if you select maybe the last few just to prove a point and then make any sort of change at all to
any of the blocks content on your page and switch back to your console, you can see that it called
your function another many, many times.
So the point is, by subscribing, we know that we are always going to be working with the very latest
version of the data read.
The data inside here is always going to be fresh because WordPress is calling this function any time
that anything changes.
So now, instead of just logging that to the console here, let's instead start looking within all of
the blocks on the page and checking for any that have correct answer as undefined.
Let's save this to a variable.
So let's say const, you can name it anything, but I'll name it results equals and then we're going
to reuse that same code we saw in the console a minute ago.
So that's WP data dot select call that.
Give it a string of text of course slash block dash editor at the end of that call get blocks.
OK, now we know that this is going to return an array in a JavaScript.
Every array has access to the filter method, so we give filter a function.
So in these parentheses, function, parentheses, curly brackets within our function parentheses,
let's make up a parameter name.
You could call it X or block, OK.
And now remember, inside our filter function, if you return true, that item will be included in the
new array that filter builds.
If you return false, the current item will not be included.
So I'm going to return.
And then for the condition that I'm checking if block name E double equals time to check for equality,
if that equals our plugins.
Are you paying attention?
If it equals that and double ampersand and block attributes correct answer equals undefined double equals
sign.
If we put this all together, the new array that filter is going to return is going to be empty unless
there's a problem.
Right.
Unless there's a quiz block that has not marked a correct answer yet, so here's where we can get back
to the actual task at hand.
Remember, we want to disable the updater save button if you have not marked a correct answer.
So let's do this within our function before our subscribe.
Let's create a variable.
You can name it anything, but I'll name it locked and set it to false by default.
I'm using let instead of const because I want to be able to change this as we go.
OK, now within our subscribe function, but after the contact results line.
So right here let's say if parentheses curly brackets if results length meaning if this array exists,
if it has items in it and if locked is currently false, meaning the page isn't already locked, well
then I do want to lock it.
So let's update locked to equal.
True and most importantly, we can use the WordPress function to actually lock that button.
So it's WP Data Dispatch, which is a function that we're going to call the type of action that we want
to dispatch is in core course editor at the end of this, look inside it for a method called lock post
saving.
And now you make up a name for this certain criteria that you're locking it for.
Let's make up a name of no answer.
Now let's do the opposite and describe when you should unlock it to save typing.
You can just duplicate these four lines of the if statement right below that pasted in for the condition.
Just add an exclamation here.
So essentially if our array of problem blocks is empty and and then get rid of the equals false and
if the save button is currently locked, then let's just do the opposite.
So we would set locked to false and instead of calling lock posts saving, we would call a WordPress
function called unlock post saving.
I know that was a lot to follow along with.
Remember, you can always download the zip file for each lesson to compare your code against the finished
product.
But let's go ahead and save this and test it out.
So if I reload, oops, I never saved my post previously, so I'm back to just having one instance of
the block.
Let me add a new instance.
Cool, so as soon as I added the new instance, you can see the save button gets great out because this
new instance doesn't have a correct answer.
But as soon as I mark one cool, the button is good to go.
So if we go back up to our first instance and delete that answer so it doesn't have a correct one.
Perfect.
I set that back.
We're back in business.
Before we bring this lesson to a close, let's take care of two tiny details.
So back in our code, up at the top, I told you I would show you a way to avoid having to come up with
a really unique function name here so we could actually get rid of the name here so that it's just function,
parentheses, curly brackets.
And then at the very start of that line, add an opening parentheses before the word function and then
at the very end of our function, add a closing parentheses.
So the parentheses sort of group, the function as a whole, and then right after that you can just
include another set of parentheses to call or execute whatever came before it.
With that in place, we obviously no longer need to call a function that doesn't exist.
So be sure to get rid of this our start function call.
Now, this approach or syntax that we just set up is called and immediately invoked function expression.
You might have seen the acronym I f e before, and that's what this is referring to.
The upside or advantage of this is now we can have scoped variables, right?
So we created this variable called Locked.
It's limited to live only within our function.
So we're not going to accidentally mess up a globally scoped WordPress variable with the same name.
Cool.
The one other detail that I wanted to take care of, if we scroll down, is the default value for our
answers attribute.
So we don't really want three items of red, blue, green.
We just want an array so square brackets with a single item of just an empty string of text.
Let's give this a save and test it out one more time.
Let me actually delete this instance of the block and insert a fresh copy just to see that red, blue,
green isn't being pre populated perfect.
This is what we want, right?
Just a question.
Feel one answer.
Feel to start off camera.
I just typed in a few values and as soon as I click Kat to market as the correct answer, our update
button is enabled.
But if I delete that item perfect, it's locked again.
That is going to bring this lesson to a close.
In our next lesson, we're going to start working on the front end for our block.
Right.
Or what the actual visitors of our website should see should be a lot of fun.
Let's keep things rolling and I'll see you then.